# Development & Complexity by Owen Barder

## Response 17 February 2020



*What is the significance of Schumpeter’s idea of creative destruction? How does it relate to firms and industries? What is coevolution and why is it significant?*		In his podcast, Owen Barder references Joseph Schlumpeter’s idea of “creative destruction,” which refers to product or firm innovation to replace outdated ones. For example, Barder describes how Nokia initially sold rubber products, yet successfully shifted to the telecommunications business. He uses this example to explain that firms are able to adapt to new opportunities as the demand shifts. However, Barder also describes the lack of demand for Nokia phones as smartphones become more relevant in our economy. This lack of demand has stunted Nokia’s ability to adapt to the market, and Barber is unsure if the company will be able to recover once again. Similarly, for firms and industries, the creative destruction process replaces old firms with new, more adaptable ones. Barder later concludes that state subsidies and trade barriers are “an enemy” of this process due to their ability to mask poor performers in the market. Barder also describes the idea of coevolution within a complex adaptive system. Coevolution refers to the ability to “understand the absence of equilibrium.” In essence, coevolution is significant within complex adaptive systems because the economy is constantly evolving and adapting due to its environment. This concludes that there will be no equilibrium within the economy.

​	*What did Barder mean by “resist fatalism?” Who was Norman Borlaug and what is The Green Revolution?*	

​	Barder insists that the second policy implication is the idea to resist fatalism. In other worlds, he implies that, as a society, we do not have to accept an idea of “destiny.” Humans have the ability to “accelerate and shape” the evolution of human development and economies. Norman Borlaug is a man who shaped the agriculture industry by developing disease-resistant wheat, thus corrupting this “evolutionary process.” Since then, this innovative era of agriculture is referred to as “The Green Revolution.” By innovating crossbreeding and selecting the high yield varieties of the plant, Borlaugh saved more than a billion people from succumbing to starvation.
