

      Joshua Blumenstock’s article describes how different methods of data analysis and algorithms can revolutionize how humans create solutions to major world problems. The main components of Blumenstock’s idea of promise include mobile phones transforming human development. For example, various algorithms similar to Google Maps, governments are able to use satellite images to distribute humanitarian aid more efficiently. Analysing people’s digital footprint and trends can improve public health in situations such as natural disasters, disease, and poverty levels. However, these various algorithms have underlying pitfalls, including unanticipated effects, lack of validation, biased algorithms, and lack of regulation within these strategies. Often times in these cases, the wealthier tend to benefit more than the intended targeted group. Similarly, as people become aware of the monitoring, the can easily deceive the data analysers. In order to overcome these pitfalls, Blumenstock proposes various ways to improve data science. He states that a humbler data science can transform international development through a more immense cultural understanding. By creating stronger relationships between the people who develop these algorithms and governments, these pitfalls described by Blumenstock can be omitted. Likewise, validating and modifying the sources of data eliminates bias and ensures stability of these data sources. 
 
      With human development and data science, “good intent” is easier said than done. Although in an ideal world it is within our human nature to expect good intent from others, that is not always the case. As Blumenstock stated, often times these humanitarian aid causes often times supports a different group, such as the wealthy as stated above. Anna Raymond’s idea that “good intent is not enough in data science when dealing with the problems which determine people’s experiences” is synonymous to the ideas Blumenstock concludes in his article. When using data science to resolve an issue as large as poverty, you eliminate the actual experiences of the people. In the other statements, the idea of transparency is ideal when dealing with humanitarian aid and improving public health through the usage of data science. 


