#### Our question related to the reading for today.  Nieves et a. use the random forest machine learning method to predict what value globally?  Describe in detail how random forest works.  What is a dasymmetric population allocation? Which geospatial covariates proved to be the most important when predicting global values of where humans reside?

In Nieves et al. article, the authors random forest machine learning method in order to evaluate the relationship between population densities and candidate correlates and drivers. Ultimately they are trying to arrive at a prediction about population density. They took RF regression models of each sample country, extracted covariate importance metrics, and then finally standardized what these covariates represented. Random Forests are non-linear statistical methods within machine-learning methods, also known as "ensemble methods." Additionally, they combine individually weak trees into "strong learners." The methods of RF can be separated into three main steps. First, they select the various covariates for the RF model, then fit this data to the model. Next, they fit the dasymetric data surrounding population onto grid cells. Dasymetric population allocation is simply drawing more accurate population data by creating new boundaries. In other words, it accurately distributes data to grid cells and these selected boundaries. When predicting global values, the most important covariates to consider when predicting global values where humans reside are climate/environmental as well as variables related to built/urban areas. 
